at easylanguage.com we run live classes
every day
sometimes several times a day and last
week in one of the classes
naf deep asked me this
and how could i resist that's what we're
going to do in this lesson
map labeling
[Music]
map labeling in ielts has a really bad
reputation
i know that when some people see it they
panic
immediately so let's eliminate that in
this video
it's actually quite a systematic and
simple
process it starts of course with a map
just like this one and notice on this
map you've got
letters a b c d
e f g h this is how map labeling usually
works
in ielts listening and certainly the
most recent tests
tend to follow this pattern we've also
got on this map a compass
down in the right hand corner that's
quite significant but let's look at the
instructions
if you're doing the test on paper paper
delivered ielts
your instructions will look something
like this questions one to five
label the map write the correct letter a
to h
next two questions one to five and
here are questions one to five now
question number one is
information board so essentially you're
being asked
where is the information board is it
here
h is it here c b
you just have to choose the right letter
on computer delivered ielts the
instructions are slightly different
it says now choose the correct letter a
to h
next to questions one to five and you'll
see a table
like this so again we've got our five
questions
starting with the information board but
this time rather than
writing the letter a or b you're just
clicking a box so a b
c d e f g are along the top here and
your job is just to click
here or here wherever the information
board is
here are some tips that will work
regardless of whether you're on paper
or on the computer now the first thing
that you need to know is the questions
come
in order so you're going to hear the
answer to number one
then number two then number three that
makes life much easier
to prepare for this type of question
start by identifying
features probably the biggest mistake
that i see when people
deal with maps in listening is that they
don't look at the map
carefully enough before the audio plays
and there is plenty of time at least 30
seconds before you hear the audio
to prepare and get ready so during that
time
look at of course the letters where are
they but also look at the features that
are already there
we've got a west gate a north gate east
and
a south gate we've got a pond here in
the south
west we've got tennis courts here
sort of inside the south gate to the
right there's a football
field and as i mentioned before there's
a compass point here as well
a compass rather and that indicates that
you should be listening
for compass points and directions on
foot so what i mean
is when the speaker is going they might
say
something about the north east or the
south west
but they may also say something like
go in the south gate and turn left at
the first track
and head straight along that kind of
language so
it's going to be a mixture north east
north
east south west and also go straight
turn right turn left
all of that language final fairly
obvious tip is to read the options
so don't just look at number one look
from number one to number five
say the word out loud in your mind
because if you
accidentally miss question one or you
miss question two
you don't wanna miss all of them all
five questions
are independent so yes maybe you will
miss one of them
but that's okay you can catch up and
answer the rest of them
one question does not depend on the
other question
just to get that language happening
let's do a quick pre-listening
practice here are three challenges for
you
first one says what letter is to the
northeast of the football field
two if you enter from the west gate what
letter is
immediately to your right and three
enter by the east gate and walk straight
ahead when you reach the tennis courts
this letter is on your right i'm going
to give you
20 seconds to look at the map and choose
a letter
for each question go
and let's check number one what letter
is to the north east of the football
field here's
here's the football field north east
it's d number two if you enter from the
west gate
over here what letter is immediately
that means directly
to your right here it is e
and number 3 enter by the east gate over
here walk straight ahead
when you reach the tennis courts this
letter is on your
right here c
so with that language in mind let's get
into it we're going to do question one
and then pause and look at the script
then question two
the same and then three four five on
your own
question one your job here is to listen
carefully
and find where is the information board
from a to h obviously it's only
one of them the slide we're looking at
now
shows foster park as it looks today with
the changes that have been made
you'll notice too that a lot of the
original facilities are still here of
course we've kept all four gates but
we've moved the information board
it used to be next to the tennis courts
but you'll find it now
immediately to your left when you enter
at the south gate
just like before it has details about
the park opening hours
local wildlife and a little bit about
the history of the area
let's check out the script now
the slide we're looking at now shows
foster park as it looks today
with the changes that have been made
you'll notice too
that a lot of the original facilities
are still here of course
we've kept all four gates but we've
moved the information board
it used to be next to the tennis courts
but you'll find it now
immediately to your left when you enter
at the south gate
just like before it has details about
the park opening hours
local wildlife and a little bit about
the history of the
area you got it
so if you're on the computer you would
click this button
f simple enough let's go on to question
two now
we're looking for the children's
playground here we go
a brand new addition is the children's
playground
if you enter by the west gate keep
walking past the path to your left
and it's just after the one to your
right dogs are not permitted in that
section
so children can play without any worries
and let's check out the script for that
section
a brand new addition is the children's
playground
if you enter by the west gate keep
walking past the path to your left
and it's just after the one to your
right dogs are not permitted in that
section
so children can play without any worries
so easy with the script isn't it so this
is the answer
children's playground is here
b okay we've done two out of five
questions now for the next three it's
over to you
i'll play the audio right from the start
try and get 100
correct here we go the slide we're
looking at now
shows foster park as it looks today with
the changes that have been made
you'll notice too that a lot of the
original facilities are still here of
course
we've kept all four gates but we've
moved the information board
it used to be next to the tennis courts
but you'll find it now
immediately to your left when you enter
at the south gate
just like before it has details about
the park opening hours
local wildlife and a little bit about
the history of the area
a brand new addition is the children's
playground
if you enter by the west gate keep
walking past the path to your left
and it's just after the one to your
right dogs are not permitted in that
section
so children can play without any worries
for you dog owners
never fear we have allocated an
off-leash dog zone
this is in a fenced-off area to the
south-west of the football field
basically in the center of the park
you'll also find plastic bags there to
clean up after your pet
the tennis courts are in the same spot
as always but you'll notice that we've
moved to the fitness area
this used to be just inside the south
gate but you'll now find it between the
pond and the west gate
we think this is a much nicer spot to
work out
one final thing i'd like to point out is
the new fountain
a spectacular addition i'm sure you'll
agree
from the west gate walk along until you
reach the first path
and turn left there to reach it as
always the park is open to the public
seven days a week and we are i'm just
going to share the answers with you now
but if you do want the transcript you
can download it in the description
below you can also see the questions and
the map
in the paper delivered format question
three where
is the dog zone hopefully you got this
right it was
c the fitness area
e last one the fountain
it's here a for more ielts practice come
and join
us at e2language.com and if you have a
request like
navdeep something that you want us to
make a video about
put it in the comment section below and
we'll see what we can do
[Music]
bye